Ken Robinson is a British author, speaker and educationalist. He was Director of the Arts in Schools Project (1985–89) and Professor of Arts Education at the University of Warwick (1989–2001).
In the video that I’ve watched, called “Do schools kill creativity?”, he talks, in common words, about the present situation in world’s education system. As you can learn from the title of the video, Ken raises some questions like “What are schools and universities today? How do they work? Do they work correctly and is there any problem with the way our young generation is being affected by the education?” 
Kevin starts with a claim, that any of us is interested in education now. Humanity has a huge vested interest in it, partly because it's education, that's meant to take us into the future that we can't grasp at the moment. And the education system must prepare us for the future, that one cannot predict correctly – even about five years’ time. 
Secondly, everyone is agreed, that children have really extraordinary creative capacities -- their capacities for innovation. And Robinson’s contention is, all kids have tremendous talents. And we squander them pretty ruthlessly.
So, Ken wants to talk about the way modern education affects on children’s creative abilities. One of his main ideas is that creativity now is as important in education as literacy, and we should treat it with the same status.
There is a story, that many of you may know, about a drawing girl. who was in a drawing lesson. The girl was six, and the teacher said this girl hardly ever paid attention, and in this drawing lesson, she did. She went over to her and asked, "What are you drawing?". And the girl answered, "I'm drawing a picture of God." And the teacher said, "But nobody knows what God looks like." And the girl said, "They will, in a minute." So it’s a good example of children’s creativity.
Then, Ken narrates a story about his son. When he was four, he was in the Nativity play (the Nativity of Jesus). And the three kings come in bearing gifts, gold, frankincense and myrrh. The three boys came in, four-year-olds with tea towels on their heads, and they put these boxes down, and the first boy said, "I bring you gold.". And the second boy said, "I bring you myrrh.". And the third boy, Ken’s son, said, "Frank sent this.". After the play he was asked "You OK with that?" And he said, "Yeah, why? Was that wrong?". That shows that kids will take a chance everywhere, they’re not afraid of mistakes. If they don't know, they'll have a go. And if you're not prepared to be wrong, you'll never come up with anything. And by the time they get to be adults, most kids have lost that capacity. They have become frightened of being wrong. And we are living like this - we stigmatize mistakes. And that’s the problem : we're now running national education systems where mistakes are the worst thing you can make. And the result is that we are educating people out of their creative capacities. Picasso once said this, he said that all children are born artists. The problem is to remain an artist as we grow up.
The next thing Ken’s talking about, is the structure of the modern education system. He sais, every education system on Earth has the same hierarchy of subjects – it doesn’t matter where you go. At the top are mathematics and languages, then the humanities, and at the bottom are the arts – I think, everyone agrees. Kevin claims, that the whole purpose of public education throughout the world is to produce university professors - they're the people who come out the top. Our education system is predicated on the idea of academic ability. And there's a reason. Around the world, there were no public systems of education before the 19th century. They all came into being to meet the needs of industrialism.
So the hierarchy is rooted on two ideas.
Number one, that the most useful subjects for work are at the top. So you were steered benignly awayf rom things at school when you were a kid, things you liked, but you would never get a job doing that. “Don't do music, you're not going to be a musician; don't do art, you won't be an artist.” Benign advice, which is profoundly mistaken. The whole world is engulfed in a revolution. 
And the second is academic ability, which has really come to dominate our view of intelligence, because the universities designed the system in their image. The whole system of public education around the world is a protracted process of university entrance. And the consequence is that many highly-talented, brilliant, creative people think they're not, because the thing they were good at at school wasn't valued, or was actually stigmatized. Ken sais, that we can't afford to go on that way, we need to radically rethink our view of intelligence. We know three things about intelligence. One, it's diverse: we think about the world in all the ways that we experience it. We think visually, we think in sound, we think kinesthetically. We think in abstract terms, we think in movement. Secondly, intelligence is dynamic. The brain isn't divided into compartments. In fact, creativity often comes about through the interaction of different ways of seeing things. And the third thing about intelligence is, it's distinct (individual). So, we have to remember these things, when we’re talking about the education system.
To summarize all his words, Kevin says our only hope for the future is to rethink the fundamental principles on which we're educating our children. We have to be careful now that we use the gift of the human imagination wisely and that we avert some of the things that we've talked about. And the only way we'll do it is by educating our children in the right way, so they can face the future. That’s what Ken stands for.

I think, that there are a lot of true things in Kevin’s words. And everyone agrees, that the education system is quite not perfect – all of us is familiar with the school system in our country: it’s a system of total control, constant children reviewing. And it’s all about marks – even today I hear from my grandparents: “Just learn, son, it must be your life point, just try hard to get best marks”. Yes, marking system is important, but its’ real structure kills all the interest to learn something new. In our country when you’re a pupil, most teachers won’t be pleased, if you speak or argue too much; if you ask too much quiestions – you just should be calm, disciplined and show respect for the elder. Extremely active and curious children are often considered mentally ill nowadays – they’re just too active, and this hurts the complete discipline of the system. All that leads to a familiar situation – when you finished school, you’re totally not interested in learning, it seems boring to you, because all the school was passed only to pass the following exams, which are a well-known pupils’ fear. And, for example, for me it’s now extremely hard to get the interest in learning again now – because all the school was just routine, and no I have a lot to do.
